As my engineering research and professional interests shifted toward
nonlinear dynamics, computation quickly became my most productive tool.
[Julia's](https://julialang.org) open-source modeling, simulation, and
symbolic manipulation packages were particularly helpful for exploring
smaller dynamical systems' structure and solutions. I am proud to have
brought several astrophysical models into Julia's ecosystem with
[`AstrodynamicalModels.jl`](https://github.com/cadojo/AstrodynamicalModels.jl)
and
[`GalacticPotentials.jl`](https://github.com/cadojo/GalacticPotentials.jl);
after professionally developing similar capabilities for the Artemis
Program, I received a Superior Achievement Award from the NASA Johnson
Space Center (JSC) Director.

As a flight dynamics engineer, I was primarily responsible for
characterizing and improving integrated spacecraft performance with
numerical simulations. This work required all relevant dynamical effects
to be modeled, including flexible structure & separation dynamics,
propellant slosh, and sensor noise. I routinely tweaked dynamical
models, and executed tens of thousands of Monte Carlo simulations to
determine the vehicle performance's sensitivity. I found talent in this
work; after applying this approach to control parameter tuning efforts,
I delivered parameter values which substantially improved vehicle
performance, and documented the emergent dynamical effects with more
than 150 pages of technical reports.

```{=html}
`<!--

I want to share that I am good at software, I love open-source, and I have positively contributed professionally.

Though I developed similar tools within NASA's Johnson Space Center, and received a Superior Achievement Award from the Center Director for doing so, most of my professional contributions demanded more computational power. As a member of the Integrated GN&C Analysis Branch, I defined and executed simulation studies using NASA's massive 6DOF nonlinear simulation framework: ANTARES.

Narratively, my story is that I have applied these skills to exploration, and I now want to apply these skills to discovery.

Paragraph 1 should be resume. Paragraph 2 should be narrative. But paragraph 1 should appropriately set up paragraph 2.

# Paragraph #1

There are two common connections between my research and professional work: computation, and exploration. Computation in service of exploration. I share open-source software, and foster that in NASA. I have received kudos for doing so. But space exploration is becoming less and less technology development, and more and more logistics.


After using open-source software in my engineering research, and
learning from many researchers in the scientific software community, I
am proud to have personally contributed back more than a dozen
open-source Julia & Python packages. I have professionally encouraged
community development by installing private package servers, giving
technical talks, and developing internal packages within NASA. One such
package, a novel 6DOF kinematics simulator, earned an Outstanding
Performance Award from the Center Director of Engineering. These
software design techniques are important for computational scientists to
consider; simplified simulation usage encourages faster model
exploration, and more productive research.

For three years, I have supported the Artemis Program as a flight
dynamics & controls engineer at NASA's Johnson Space Center (JSC).

defined & executed tens of thousands of Monte Carlo simulations. I found
talent in this work; I successfully identified the cause of emergent
vehicle behaviors, and selected control parameter values which
substantially improved simulated vehicle performance. I documented this
achievement over six months with 150 pages of technical reports,
approved and submitted to the Artemis Program.

I have developed these dynamics and scientific software skills while
becoming increasingly aware of this moment in astronomy. -->
```